---
title: "My Planner"
date: 2022-06-25
---

My current planner is stop-sign red and can get up to 2 inches thick. A disheveled mix of projects, plans, and vital information, it is an external hard drive for
my brain, and it is often much more reliable. My planner is a throwback to the 1980s when planning systems first became popular, and Filofax and Franklin were the
top-of-the-line options. I formed my planning habit of keep my goals, to-dos, plans and ideas all in one place and within easy reach way back then.

Even today, I prefer the feel and sound of paper. My pen or pencil grabs the surface and creates a tangible drag as I write. Then there’s the physical action of
flipping pages, which to me is much more interactive than scrolling through digital screens. I can add pages or remove them, tear or fold them and use both sides
of the sheet. I can doodle, color, jot notes, draw arrows… whatever is necessary to track my thinking and progress. To jot something down is quicker for me than
keying it in, and I commit fewer typos in the process. Outlook and Google are the digital companions to my customized daybook, making mine a tight hybrid system.

I switched from using a ring to a disc-bound system a few years ago. Two systems, Circa, and Arc, are the most popular of the disc-bound systems, and I use fillers
from both. The disc system is easily customized and allows me to pull out sheets and arrange them in front of me to view all at once. They are simple to replace back
into the binder.

A number of years ago I started designing my own planner pages. It took me a few versions to work out what works best for me. What I created was a blend of David
Allen’s Getting Things Done, the Franklin-Covey system and Andy Stanley’s life roles (similar to Michael Hyatt’s method). I found nothing in each system that I could
use to my advantage without modification, and as a result, I was always wasting pages, so I creating my own system made sense.

My system does not use week-at-a-glance, one-page per day or 2-page-per-day format. It’s more of an agenda than a calendar. It consists of weekly roles and goals
sheets with an “inbox” grid on the reverse. Then, for each day, I list my categorized tasks on narrow note sheets.

My habit of keeping a daily record and planning my days ahead of time was learned from my mother. She kept a calendar – looking forward – and then near the end of
her life kept a journal – looking back on too little time gone by. Bits and pieces of these lives that I knew well were handed down to me in her penmanship. Those
recorded comings and goings remind me of the people I came from, as I suppose my daybooks and sketchbooks will someday inform my children in the same way.
